MATTHEW SHARPE
15A County Road
Stafford,
Staffordshire,										07732885524
ST16 2PU								matthewsharpe3@gmail.com	
SUMMARY

Masters degree educated data scientist with a history of academic and career success. Experience of working in an emerging data science department – choosing and implementing new technologies and methodologies. Enthused by the chance to continue working in a data science role with cutting edge technologies and the brightest people around.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

THE hut group
June 2012 - Present
Data Scientist
	
Generating insight as part of the newly formed Growth and Innovation team. Responsible for using bleeding edge technologies with big data to suggest and implement business change.

Generated upwards of £500k revenue/year building an in-house recommendations service, testing a variety of machine learning algorithms to show the best products in the right places.
Set up the company's first Hadoop Cluster and used this to run AB tests and perform statistical analysis.
Implemented an automated 'browse-abandon' email system responsible for £16k revenue/month.
Built a real time, interactive reporting solution based on 8GB daily log files.
Deployed code to 27 major websites with close to 500,000 viewers a day.

Technical Marketplace Manager                                                     	

Managing the technical side of all the businesses marketplace offerings (eBay, GroupOn) and the whole business (technical and commercial) offering with Amazon and Play.

Built and maintained automated pricing solutions for both Amazon and Play, generating upwards of £5,000/day revenue, increasing profitability and allowing better management of aging stock.


MARS PETCARE UK
September 2011 – June 2012 
Management Development Program
                                          

Managing projects to improve the efficiency and reduce the waste of a large manufacturing operation line.

Led a group of 6 employees to deliver £80,000 worth of annualized savings through a project to reduce the quantity of unlogged waste in the factory.


ADDLESHAW GODDARD LLP, COBBETTS LLP, BRISTOWS LLP, DELOITTE LLP

June 2009 – June 2011
Vacation Scheme Placements


Completing small parts of larger legal projects and discovering aspects of legal work through case studies. Attending training courses on interviewing, drafting and writing in a technical but understandable way. Interviewing clients at their own site, completing tax calculations and delivering presentations on complex areas of tax regulation to senior partners.

SELF EMPLOYED
2005 – 2007 
Guitar teacher


Marketing myself effectively to attract students, preparing and delivering lessons in an engaging fashion and managing a client base of up to 10 students.

SKILLS
Python
Databases (SQL Server, MySQL, Cassandra, Mongo, Redis)
Machine Learning
Linux
Statistical Testing
Hadoop, HDFS and MapReduce
Web technologies (Javascript, jQuery, HTML)
Microsoft (Applications, some VB)
Version control (Subversion, Git)
Programming Languages (Matlab/Octave, Java)

EDUCATION

Durham University - Master of Natural Sciences (Mathematics & Physics) – 2:1

Completed a project in Python creating a simulation of the evolution of life (Conway's Game of Life) with both closed and repeating boundary conditions.
  Programmed extensively in Matlab in order to numerically solve third order partial differential equations with varying boundary conditions.

St Mary's High School – A levels (Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, History) – 4 As

Tupton Hall School – GCSEs – 6 A*s, 3 As, 1 B

INTERESTS

I am a keen sportsman, gaining certification in sports coaching and have participated at a county level for squash.

I also keep up my interest in guitar and music in general and have, and continue to, play in a number of bands of varying standard.
